README.md, before:

# famous-views v1.x series [![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/gadicc/meteor-famous-views.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gadicc/meteor-famous-views)

Oh look, it's a new major number.  That means I can break the API :)

You're on the **master** branch, where work is in development for the totally
unstable famous-views v1.x series, which works with famous v0.5 (mixed mode).

For the stable (but deprecated) famous-views v0.x, which works with famous v0.3.5,
please see the [v0](https://github.com/gadicc/meteor-famous-views/tree/v0) branch.

[Forums.Famous-Views.Org](http://forums.famous-views.org/) and 
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/gadicc/meteor-famous-views](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/gadicc/meteor-famous-views?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

## API

The v1 series is a rewrite.  A good opportunity for code househeeping.  Code
from v0 will be copied in and adapted on a per unit bases, after inspection
and ideally tests.

Please read this README in it's entirety to understand what's going on :)  Also,
the `v1.0.0` -- it's semver, we're bumping the major version to indicate an API
change.  Please don't draw any conclusions about being "production ready".  We'll
also have `v1.0.0-pre.1`, `-pre.2` up to some very big number before a "stable"
version is released.

Quick start:

```bash
# you'll have to watch out for new versions by hand, unfortunately :(
meteor add gadicohen:famous gadicohen:famous-views@1.0.0-pre.2
```

[gadicohen:famous](https://atmospherejs.com/gadicohen/famous) is a temporary
package until our regular options are available again.  It exports everything
to a global `famous` var, e.g. `famous.core.FamousEngine`, etc.  When we reach
stable, we'll have a recommended pattern that works with all packages, which
may involve wrapping famous-requiring-code with `FView.ready()` like last time,
we'll see.  But for now just use the globals.

The new markup structure looks like this:

```handlebars
<body>
  {{#Scene}}
    {{#Node}}
      {{#DOMElement}}
        <p>Yo!</p>
      {{/DOMElement}}
    {{/Node}}
  {{/Scene}}
</body>
```

Or a "full" example: (in Jade...  use Jade!)

```jade
body
  +Scene // No reactive vars yet, coming soon
    +Node id="myNode"
      +Node size="[A:100,A:100]" rotation=getRotation2
        +DOMElement
          p Howzit!
      +Node size="[P:1,renderSize]" rotation=getRotation1
        +DOMElement
          p Shalom!
```

### Scene

* No attributes supported (yet).
* It attaches to the containing DOM element (body in the above example).

## Node

Supported reactive attributes:

* `size` - adds `fview.size` instance and sets size (see below for the format)
* `position` / `align` / `mountPoint` / `origin` / `rotation` / `scale` - see below

Supported non-reactive attributes:

* `id`

**Sizing**

See http://famous.org/learn/sizing.html for the sizing types.  We believe in minimal
typing, so we have a proprietary string format that looks like this (spaces optional):

    size="A:150, renderSize, R:0.5:-10, P:0.5, D:-10"

This will do the following in famous:

```js
var size = fview.size = new Size(node);
size.setMode(Node.ABSOLUTE_SIZE, Node.RENDER_SIZE, Node.RELATIVE_SIZE)
size.setAbsolute(150);
size.setProportional(undefined, undefined, 0.5);
size.setDifferential(undefined, undefined, -10);
```

Famous doesn't yet support the 4th and 5th dimensions, so the above is just to
illustrate all the formats :)

**Everything else**

String decoding similar to famous-views 0.x, e.g. position="[100,100]",
JSON and some other stuff.  You should return an exact value (e.g. an
Array of Numbers) from reactive helpers.

Notes: 

* *Numbers are passed as is*.  In v0 we took degrees from helpers and
converted them to radians to pass to Famous.  This may or may not happen
in v1 (i.e. API is still unstable)

* We only instantiate a new component as `fview.position` etc if a
transition is specified.

For animations, you can return a special object ala famous-views v0:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  reactiveRotate: function() {
    return {
      value: [0, 1],
      transition: { duration: 1000, curve: 'inBounce' }
      halt: true,                   // optional
      callback: function() { ... }  // optional
    };
  }
});
```

To keep switching between two values, we provide a shortcut to infinity:

```jade
+Node rotation='{ "value1": [0,-3.14], "value2": [0,3.14], "transition": { "duration": 1000 } }'
```

You can also simply manipulate the `fview` directly and
`return '__FVIEW_SKIP__'`, e.g.:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  reactiveRotate: function() {
    FView.current().node.setRotation(x,y,z);
    return '__FVIEW_SKIP__';
  },
  reactiveRotate2: function() {
    var fview = FView.current();
    if (!fview.rotate)
      fview.rotate = new famous.components.Rotate(fview.node);
    fview.rotate.set(1,2,3, transition, callback);
    fview.rotate.setX(1, transition, callback);
    return '__FVIEW_SKIP__';
  }
});
```

***Special Attributes***:

```jade
body
  +Node _onRender="renderFunc" // note, String name
```

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  renderFunc: function() {
    // this = fview
  }
});

### DOMElement

This is a component that is added to the enclosing node, it's not a real node on it's
own, it simply attaches a DOMElement component to the enclosing node, and the augments
that node's `fview` with:

* `fview.domElement` - the DOMElement instance
* `fview.updateSize()` - forces an update for RENDER_SIZE'd nodes
* `fview.updateSizeDeferred()` - as above, but deferred (useful for reactive helpers)

Template attributes:

* style="background: red; color: white" (reactive)
* class="class1 class2 etc" (reactive)
* dir="rtl" and any other attribute (reactive)
* tagName like in famous -- NOT IMPLEMENTED YET (TODO)
* watchSize like in v0 -- NOT IMPLEMENTED YET (TODO)

The `{{>Surface template="x"}}` format is gone, just put `{{>x}}` inside.

If using RENDER_SIZE, you have to let us know if you do anything that could
change the size of the rendered content, using one of the Methods above.
Here's an example for a reactive helper:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  something: function() {
    FView.current().updateSizeDeferred();
    return variableSizedStuff;
  }
});
```

## FView (global)

* `FView.byId(id)` - gets the fview from e.g. `{{#Node id="myNode"}}etc{{/Node}}`
* `FView.from(viewOrTplorEl)` - gets the `fview` from a
  [Blaze View](http://docs.meteor.com/#/full/blaze_view), a
  [Template Instance](http://docs.meteor.com/#/full/template_inst) or a
  DOM element (of the regular, non-famous variety)
* `FView.current()` - great new shortcut for inside helpers, Meteor events,
  template/view autoruns and some callbacks.  Uses `Blaze.currentView` internally.

## Logging

Package['jag:pince'].Logger.setLevel('famous-views', 'info');

Levels are: trace, debug, info, warn, error

In a later release I'll enable to change this before load, for those who hate anything
on console :)

## Events

Might add something to do this in a Meteor way again.  For now, either set these
up famous-style `_onRender` or do something like this:

```handlebars
<template name="outer">
  {{#DOMElement}}
    {{>inner}}
  {{/DOMElement}}
</template>

<template name="inner">
  <!-- NB: Critical to have one element in here to receive the event -->
  <!-- depending on your needs, maybe style="width: 100%; height: 100%" -->
  <div>Blah blah blah</div>
</template>
```

```js
Template.inner.events({
  'click': function(event, templateInstance) {
    var fview = FView.current();
    // `this` is data context; regular Meteor event, etc.
  }
});
```

## What's missing / TODO / Roadmap

* [ ] Defer/tracker override
* [ ] Ability to remove/destroy templates :)
* [ ] famousEach, famousIf, etc
* [ ] Events in a Meteor way again?
* [ ] Loads of other stuff from v0... request them and I'll prioritize

## Differences from v0

Besides the underlying Famous API and how we deal with it:

* In v0 we could use famous-views stuff **inline** `{{#Surface}}...{{/Surface}}`
  and via **inclusion** `{{>Surface template="mySurface"}}`.  The latter enabled
  us to use life cycle callbacks and events, but was a big source of confusion
  amongst users, and stifled fast development but requiring a lot of extraneous
  subtemplating.  In the new version we just use `_onRender` and `_eventMap`
  attributes, provided from the enclosing Templates single helper.  Feedback
  welcome.  You can still use regular inclusion `{{>template}}` like usual.

Commit message:

v1.0.0-pre.3; fix scene behaviour, add CSS, sizing format change

README.md, after:

# famous-views v1.x series [![Build Status](https://api.travis-ci.org/gadicc/meteor-famous-views.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/gadicc/meteor-famous-views)

Oh look, it's a new major number.  That means I can break the API :)

You're on the **master** branch, where work is in development for the totally
unstable famous-views v1.x series, which works with famous v0.5 (mixed mode).

For the stable (but deprecated) famous-views v0.x, which works with famous v0.3.5,
please see the [v0](https://github.com/gadicc/meteor-famous-views/tree/v0) branch.

[Forums.Famous-Views.Org](http://forums.famous-views.org/) and 
[![Join the chat at https://gitter.im/gadicc/meteor-famous-views](https://badges.gitter.im/Join%20Chat.svg)](https://gitter.im/gadicc/meteor-famous-views?utm_source=badge&utm_medium=badge&utm_campaign=pr-badge&utm_content=badge)

## API

The v1 series is a rewrite.  A good opportunity for code househeeping.  Code
from v0 will be copied in and adapted on a per unit bases, after inspection
and ideally tests.

Please read this README in it's entirety to understand what's going on :)  Also,
the `v1.0.0` -- it's semver, we're bumping the major version to indicate an API
change.  Please don't draw any conclusions about being "production ready".  We'll
also have `v1.0.0-pre.1`, `-pre.2` up to some very big number before a "stable"
version is released.

Quick start:

```bash
# you'll have to watch out for new versions by hand, unfortunately :(
# but that's good, so you know to check History.md on every update!
meteor add gadicohen:famous gadicohen:famous-views@1.0.0-pre.3
```

[gadicohen:famous](https://atmospherejs.com/gadicohen/famous) is a temporary
package until our regular options are available again.  It exports everything
to a global `famous` var, e.g. `famous.core.FamousEngine`, etc.  When we reach
stable, we'll have a recommended pattern that works with all packages, which
may involve wrapping famous-requiring-code with `FView.ready()` like last time,
we'll see.  But for now just use the globals.

The new markup structure looks like this:

```handlebars
<body>
  {{#Scene}}
    {{#Node}}
      {{#DOMElement}}
        <p>Yo!</p>
      {{/DOMElement}}
    {{/Node}}
  {{/Scene}}
</body>
```

Or a "full" example: (in Jade...  use Jade!)

```jade
body
  +Scene // No reactive vars yet, coming soon
    +Node id="myNode"
      +Node size="[A:100,A:100]" rotation=getRotation2
        +DOMElement
          p Howzit!
      +Node size="[P:1,renderSize]" rotation=getRotation1
        +DOMElement
          p Shalom!
```

### Scene

* The only attribute supported is `id`

* The scene attaches itself to the containing DOM element ('body' in the above example).
* This element is given a 'fview-scene' class (which has appropriate CSS rules),
  and in the case of an element other than `body`, with no pre-existing `id` attribute,
  is given the specified id (or `fview0`, etc, if no id was specified).
* If attached to 'body', the relevant CSS is added for `html` and `body` to give you
  full control over the browser window.  For *any other element*, you should set the
  appropriate `width`, `height`, `margin` and `padding` as appropriate.

  Otherwise, you should specify
the appropriate CSS and sizing yourself.

## Node

Supported reactive attributes:

* `size` - adds `fview.size` instance and sets size (see below for the format)
* `position` / `align` / `mountPoint` / `origin` / `rotation` / `scale` - see below

Supported non-reactive attributes:

* `id`

**Sizing**

See http://famous.org/learn/sizing.html for the sizing types.  We believe in minimal
typing, so we have a proprietary string format that looks as follows (spaces are
optional, names may be shortened anjd case is insensitive, so the following two
snippets are equivalent):

    size="proportional: 0.5; differential: -10"
    size="P:0.5; D:-10"

    size="absoluteSize: 150; renderSize; relative: 0.5,-10;"
    size="A:150; RS; R:0.5,-10; P:0.5; D:-10"

The second group would do the following in famous:

```js
var size = fview.size = new Size(node);
size.setMode(Node.ABSOLUTE_SIZE, Node.RENDER_SIZE, Node.RELATIVE_SIZE)
size.setAbsolute(150);
size.setProportional(undefined, undefined, 0.5);
size.setDifferential(undefined, undefined, -10);
```

**Everything else**

String decoding similar to famous-views 0.x, e.g. position="[100,100]",
JSON and some other stuff.  You should return an exact value (e.g. an
Array of Numbers) from reactive helpers.

Notes: 

* *Numbers are passed as is*.  In v0 we took degrees from helpers and
converted them to radians to pass to Famous.  This may or may not happen
in v1 (i.e. API is still unstable)

* We only instantiate a new component as `fview.position` etc if a
transition is specified.

For animations, you can return a special object ala famous-views v0:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  reactiveRotate: function() {
    return {
      value: [0, 1],
      transition: { duration: 1000, curve: 'inBounce' }
      halt: true,                   // optional
      callback: function() { ... }  // optional
    };
  }
});
```

To keep switching between two values, we provide a shortcut to infinity:

```jade
+Node rotation='{ "value1": [0,-3.14], "value2": [0,3.14], "transition": { "duration": 1000 } }'
```

You can also simply manipulate the `fview` directly and
`return '__FVIEW_SKIP__'`, e.g.:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  reactiveRotate: function() {
    FView.current().node.setRotation(x,y,z);
    return '__FVIEW_SKIP__';
  },
  reactiveRotate2: function() {
    var fview = FView.current();
    if (!fview.rotate)
      fview.rotate = new famous.components.Rotate(fview.node);
    fview.rotate.set(1,2,3, transition, callback);
    fview.rotate.setX(1, transition, callback);
    return '__FVIEW_SKIP__';
  }
});
```

***Special Attributes***:

```jade
body
  +Node _onRender="renderFunc" // note, String name
```

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  renderFunc: function() {
    // this = fview
  }
});

### DOMElement

This is a component that is added to the enclosing node, it's not a real node on it's
own, it simply attaches a DOMElement component to the enclosing node, and the augments
that node's `fview` with:

* `fview.domElement` - the DOMElement instance
* `fview.updateSize()` - forces an update for RENDER_SIZE'd nodes
* `fview.updateSizeDeferred()` - as above, but deferred (useful for reactive helpers)

Template attributes:

* style="background: red; color: white" (reactive)
* class="class1 class2 etc" (reactive)
* dir="rtl" and any other attribute (reactive)
* tagName like in famous -- NOT IMPLEMENTED YET (TODO)
* watchSize like in v0 -- NOT IMPLEMENTED YET (TODO)

The `{{>Surface template="x"}}` format is gone, just put `{{>x}}` inside.

If using RENDER_SIZE, you have to let us know if you do anything that could
change the size of the rendered content, using one of the Methods above.
Here's an example for a reactive helper:

```js
Template.body.helpers({
  something: function() {
    FView.current().updateSizeDeferred();
    return variableSizedStuff;
  }
});
```

## FView (global)

* `FView.byId(id)` - gets the fview from e.g. `{{#Node id="myNode"}}etc{{/Node}}`
* `FView.from(viewOrTplorEl)` - gets the `fview` from a
  [Blaze View](http://docs.meteor.com/#/full/blaze_view), a
  [Template Instance](http://docs.meteor.com/#/full/template_inst) or a
  DOM element (of the regular, non-famous variety)
* `FView.current()` - great new shortcut for inside helpers, Meteor events,
  template/view autoruns and some callbacks.  Uses `Blaze.currentView` internally.

## Logging

Package['jag:pince'].Logger.setLevel('famous-views', 'info');

Levels are: trace, debug, info, warn, error

In a later release I'll enable to change this before load, for those who hate anything
on console :)

## Events

Might add something to do this in a Meteor way again.  For now, either set these
up famous-style `_onRender` or do something like this:

```handlebars
<template name="outer">
  {{#DOMElement}}
    {{>inner}}
  {{/DOMElement}}
</template>

<template name="inner">
  <!-- NB: Critical to have one element in here to receive the event -->
  <!-- depending on your needs, maybe style="width: 100%; height: 100%" -->
  <div>Blah blah blah</div>
</template>
```

```js
Template.inner.events({
  'click': function(event, templateInstance) {
    var fview = FView.current();
    // `this` is data context; regular Meteor event, etc.
  }
});
```

## What's missing / TODO / Roadmap

* [ ] Defer/tracker override
* [ ] Ability to remove/destroy templates :)
* [ ] famousEach, famousIf, etc
* [ ] Events in a Meteor way again?
* [ ] Loads of other stuff from v0... request them and I'll prioritize

## Differences from v0

Besides the underlying Famous API and how we deal with it:

* In v0 we could use famous-views stuff **inline** `{{#Surface}}...{{/Surface}}`
  and via **inclusion** `{{>Surface template="mySurface"}}`.  The latter enabled
  us to use life cycle callbacks and events, but was a big source of confusion
  amongst users, and stifled fast development but requiring a lot of extraneous
  subtemplating.  In the new version we just use `_onRender` and `_eventMap`
  attributes, provided from the enclosing Templates single helper.  Feedback
  welcome.  You can still use regular inclusion `{{>template}}` like usual.
